,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Data from database: Food Prices for Nutrition
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Code,Indicator Name,Long definition,Source
Pop,Population,"Total population is based on the de facto definition of population, which counts all residents regardless of legal status or citizenship. The values shown are midyear estimates.","(1) United Nations Population Division. World Population Prospects: 2022 Revision. (2) Census reports and other statistical publications from national statistical offices, (3) Eurostat: Demographic Statistics, (4) United Nations Statistical Division. Population and Vital Statistics Reprot (various years), (5) U.S. Census Bureau: International Database, and (6) Secretariat of the Pacific Community: Statistics and Demography Programme."
CoHD_unafford_n,Millions of people unable to afford a healthy diet at 52% of income,"The indicator expresses the total number of people who cannot afford a healthy diet in a given country and year. The indicator is computed by multiplying the percentage of the population in a country unable to afford a healthy diet by population data taken from the World Development Indicators (WDI) of the World Bank. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoNA_unafford_n,Millions of people unable to afford nutrient adequacy at 52% of income,The indicator expresses the total number of people who cannot afford a nutrient adequate diet in a given country and year. The indicator is computed by multiplying the percentage of the population in a country unable to afford a healthy diet by population data taken from the World Development Indicators (WDI) of the World Bank. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoCA_unafford_n,Millions of people unable to afford sufficient calories at 52% of income,The indicator expresses the total number of people who cannot afford an energy-sufficient diet in a given country and year. The indicator is computed by multiplying the percentage of the population in a country unable to afford a healthy diet by population data taken from the World Development Indicators (WDI) of the World Bank. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_headcount,Percent of the population unable to afford a healthy diet,"The indicator expresses the percentage of the total population unable to afford a healthy diet. A healthy diet is considered unaffordable in a country when its cost exceeds 52 percent of income per capita per day. This percentage accounts for a portion of income that can be credibly reserved for food, based on observations that the population in low-income countries spend, on average, 52 percent of their income on food, as derived from the 2017 national accounts household expenditure data of the World Bank's International Comparison Programme (ICP). Income data are provided by the World Bank’s Poverty and Inequality Platform. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoNA_headcount,Percent of the population unable to afford nutrient adequacy,"The indicator expresses the percentage of the total population unable to afford a nutrient adequate diet. A healthy diet is considered unaffordable in a country when its cost exceeds 52 percent of income per capita per day. This percentage accounts for a portion of income that can be credibly reserved for food, based on observations that the population in low-income countries spend, on average, 52 percent of their income on food, as derived from the 2017 national accounts household expenditure data of the World Bank's International Comparison Programme (ICP). Income data are provided by the World Bank’s Poverty and Inequality Platform. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoCA_headcount,Percent of the population unable to afford sufficient calories,"The indicator expresses the percentage of the total population unable to afford an energy sufficient diet. A healthy diet is considered unaffordable in a country when its cost exceeds 52 percent of income per capita per day. This percentage accounts for a portion of income that can be credibly reserved for food, based on observations that the population in low-income countries spend, on average, 52 percent of their income on food, as derived from the 2017 national accounts household expenditure data of the World Bank's International Comparison Programme (ICP). Income data are provided by the World Bank’s Poverty and Inequality Platform. A value of zero indicates a null or a small number rounded down at the current precision level. Data are currently available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_fexp,Affordability of a healthy diet: ratio of cost to food expenditures,The ratio of the cost of a healthy diet to total food expenditure per capita per day from national accounts. Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoNA_fexp,Affordability of a nutrient adequate diet: ratio of cost to food expenditures,The ratio of the cost of a nutrient adequate diet to total food expenditure per capita per day from national accounts. Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoCA_fexp,Affordability of an energy sufficient diet: ratio of cost to food expenditures,The ratio of the cost of an energy sufficient diet to total food expenditure per capita per day from national accounts. Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_pov,Affordability of a healthy diet: ratio of cost to the food poverty line,"The ratio of the cost of a healthy diet to the $1.12 food poverty line (52% of the international poverty line of 2.15/day in 2017 PPP$). Data available for 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoNA_pov,Affordability of a nutrient adequate diet: ratio of cost to the food poverty line,The ratio of the cost of a nutrient adequate diet to the $1.12 food poverty line (52% of the international poverty line of 2.15/day in 2017 PPP$). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoCA_pov,Affordability of an energy sufficient diet: ratio of cost to the food poverty line,The ratio of the cost of an energy sufficient diet to the $1.12 food poverty line (52% of the international poverty line of 2.15/day in 2017 PPP$). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_of_ss,Cost of oils and fats relative to the starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet,Cost of the least expensive oils and fats as a multiple of the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_lns_ss,"Cost of legumes, nuts and seeds relative to the starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet","Cost of the least expensive legumes, nuts and seeds as a multiple of the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs). Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_asf_ss,Cost of animal-sourced foods relative to the starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet,Cost of the least expensive animal-source foods as a multiple of the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_v_ss,Cost of vegetables relative to the starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet,Cost of the least expensive vegetables as a multiple of the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_of_prop,Cost share for oils and fats in a least-cost healthy diet,"Share of costs for the least expensive oils or fats to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_f_ss,Cost of fruits relative to the starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet,Cost of the least expensive fruits as a multiple of the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs). Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_lns_prop,"Cost share for legumes, nuts and seeds in a least-cost healthy diet","Share of costs for the least expensive legumes, nuts or seeds to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_asf_prop,Cost share for animal-sourced foods in a least-cost healthy diet,"Share of costs for the least expensive animal-source foods to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_ss_prop,Cost share for starchy staples in a least-cost healthy diet,"Share of costs for the least expensive starchy staples to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_v_prop,Cost share for vegetables in a least-cost healthy diet,"Share of costs for the least expensive vegetables to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_f_prop,Cost share for fruits in a least-cost healthy diet,"Share of costs for the least expensive fruits to meet daily recommendations in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), as a proportion of the total cost of a healthy diet. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_of,Cost of oils and fats,"The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available fats or oils to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Fats and oils are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_lns,"Cost of legumes, nuts and seeds","The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available legumes, nuts and seeds to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Legumes, nuts and seeds are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_asf,Cost of animal-source foods,"The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available animal-source foods to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Animal-source foods are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_ss,Cost of starchy staples,"The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available starchy staples to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Starchy staples are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_v,Cost of vegetables,"The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available vegetables to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Vegetables are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_f,Cost of fruits,"The cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available fruits to meet daily intake levels recommended in food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in 2017 PPP$/person/day. Fruits are one of the six food groups within the Healthy Diet Basket. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD_CoCA,Cost of a healthy diet relative to the cost of sufficient energy from starchy staples,Ratio between the cost of a healthy diet (CoHD) that meets requirements for energy and food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs) and the cost of caloric adequacy (CoCA) that uses only starchy staples to meet energy requirements. Data available for 2017.,"Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoHD,Cost of a healthy diet,"The cost of a healthy diet indicator is the cost of purchasing the least expensive locally available foods to meet requirements for energy and food-based dietary guidelines (FBDGs), in current PPP$/person/day, for a representative person within energy balance at 2330 kcal/day. Data available for 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. PPPs in 2018, and/or 2019, and/or 2020, and/or 2021 are imputed by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations for the given countries of Argentina, Aruba, Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curaçao, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Dominica, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eswatini, Gabon, Kazakhstan, Liberia, Malawi, Myanmar, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sint Maarten (Dutch part), Suriname, Tajikistan, United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoNA,Cost of a nutrient adequate diet,"Cost of the least expensive locally-available foods for nutrient adequacy, in 2017 PPP$/person/day, for a representative person within upper and lower bounds for 23 essential macro- and micronutrients plus energy balance at 2330 kcal/day. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
CoCA,Cost of an energy sufficient diet,"Cost of the least expensive starchy staple for energy balance, in 2017 PPP$/person/day, for a representative person at 2330 kcal/day. Data available for 2017.","Adapted from Herforth, A., Venkat, A., Bai, Y., Costlow, L., Holleman, C. & Masters, W.A. 2022. Methods and options to monitor globally the cost and affordability of a healthy diet. Background paper for The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World 2022. Rome, FAO."
